Yvgrossmann feedback (#349)
the-teachingRSE-project/competencies: competencies.md

quality research software.
There is still a long way to go, but positive change is well underway.

> RSEs may work within one of the increasing numbers of research software engineering teams that

Reviewer: Hatten wir das nicht erst andersrum geändert? Es sollte Einzahl sein, also die Änderung würde ich als falsch empfinden.

Author: hab's mal geändert.

(e.g., [@alves_elixir_2021; @martinez_ortiz_practical_2022]) which could be
helpful for RSEs at early stages (i.e., with not much experience of project
management). They give quick hints on what to look for regarding basic
management for research software (including information on, e.g., licenses,
releases, publication, citation, archiving) together with some ongoing work on
corresponding metadata [@giraldo_metadata_2023].
Metadata can also be used

> actively during, within, and after a research project, to edify the decision-making

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion:
```suggestion
actively during, within, and after completion of a research project, to edify the decision-making
```

> actively during, within, and after a research project, to edify the decision-making

Reviewer 3: I am not sure I understand the difference between:
- used during a project
- used within a project

Doesn't `within` imply `during`, and `during` imply `within`, given that we are only talking about the project and not any external system?

Reviewer 4: My best guess would be that `during` refers to the people in the project processing the metadata mentally while `within` means that the software itself makes use of the metadata. But I agree that it is something that makes one stumble when reading.

Reviewer 5: I agree it is somewhat redundant. However, I wanted to emphasise that using metadata during the project to help direct the project is a real benefit. Typically, the common view is that metadata is collected for follow on projects or other users of the project. The metadata is then like a tombstone: _here lies.... RIP_

Reviewer 4: True.. But would we need both during and within then?

Reviewer 5: ah, I missed the last bit, _edify the project_. I don't like this phrase, it has religious connotations to me. I prefer the original inform the decision making as that's more neutral.

> actively during, within, and after completion of a research project, to edify the decision-making

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
actively during and within a research project, to inform the decision-making
```
I would prefer my original wording. Metadata is usually collected for use after completion of the project. So that conflicts with the _also_. The point is that metadata can be used while the project is active (during) for purposes of the project (within).

helpful for RSEs at early stages (i.e., with not much experience of project
management). They give quick hints on what to look for regarding basic

> management for research software (including information on e.g., licenses,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
management for research software (including information on, e.g., licenses,
```

releases, publication, citation, archiving) together with some ongoing work on
corresponding metadata [@giraldo_metadata_2023].
Metadata can also be used

> actively during, within and after a research project to edify the decision-making

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actively during, within, and after a research project, to edify the decision-making
```
